Reading Expose you to new things, new ways, new understanding, new information, new ways to handle situations and new ways to solve them, While reading you understand things in different perspective, it makes you realize and understand World and Yourself in a different way, Reading can help you to find out your hobbies, and can make you explore things which eventually becomes your career and success in future,

Reading helps you to understand yourself differently, It Open ups your mind, and help you to accept the changes in your life, and also makes you understand the different positive aspects of life. And also helps you to understand the world more properly. Reading makes you smarter.

Reading helps you to be a better you, Through reading you can have a better understanding on a topic that interests you, This will help you to become better, As you all know books gives a lot of knowledge and information, which can be really very beneficial, As it says Knowledge is the key to success and hence having knowledge about life, about different things will help you to move ahead in life and will make your brain sharper and make you smarter. Knowledge gives you the better understanding, Reading is an effective memory booster, Reading and memory are an interrelated concept when you are reading; you are training your brain, and reading gives wisdom to your mind.

Reading your imagination and Creativity increases, It gives you different ideas and understanding, Good reader from the young age can become a good writer, Reading sparks the imagination, When you read, you are taken into the new world, This thing nurtures your brain to develop ideas for new worlds and other possibilities, this sparks imagination. Reading helps you to understand differently.
Reading Exposes you to the world of imagination, Shows you nothing is impossible in this world, shows how Different actions lead to different results. Books help you to CHANGE YOUR FIXED MINDSET TO GROWTH MINDSET.
As it says ONCE YOU LEARN TO READ, YOU WILL BE FOREVER FREE
Reading self-help Books, You can learn from the masters and people who have already been through that situation and can also learn how to tackle them and get success and happiness in our lives, Through books you can gain experience Of life through famous and experience people, You can understand life from masters and mentors perspective, and can also learn from them in order to move ahead in life. Books can help you to understand life from the perspective of mentors and masters who had gone through that situation, to which you are going through right now at present, So through books, you can learn how to tackle them.
People often face problem-related to English, But Reading can help you to improve, Through books you can learn new words statements and grammar, It will also save your cash, By not joining any course and directly learn through books, and self-education is a great way to learn, but For this Implementation is must, you will learn if you are focused towards it.
Reading A true story about A person who has faced a lot of obstacles and still had achieved a lot in his life, can motivate you to take a step towards your goal and dream, From long you want to take action in order to fulfill your dream, but you are afraid that you might fail, but books removes that worry and stress from you and helps you to move towards your goals and dreams, and also makes you understand That Failure is not a disappointment or a stress it’s an Experience, And You never fail you learn from them.. And this learning should help you to move ahead in life and this time to try more intelligently.
Reading opens a different positive mindset and shows you the real positive world where nothing is Impossible.
No matter how much stress you are going through in your personal life or professional life, it all just slips away, Reading can help you to melt down your stress level faster than other methods; Reading is the best way to relax your brain. As per the Research Psychologist believes this is because the human Mind has to concentrate on reading and the distraction of being taken into a literary world eases the tensions in muscles and the heart.
No matter how much stress you have at work, in your personal relationships, or countless other issues faced in daily life, it all just slips away when you lose yourself in a great story. A well-written novel can transport you to other realms, while an engaging article will distract you and keep you in the present moment, letting tensions drain away and allowing you to relax.
Everything you read fills your head with new bits of information, and you never know when it might come in handy. The more knowledge you have, the better-equipped you are to tackle any challenge you’ll ever face.
Additionally, here’s a bit of food for thought: should you ever find yourself in dire circumstances, remember that although you might lose everything else—your job, your possessions, your money, even your health—knowledge can never be taken from you.
The more you read, the more words you gain exposure to, and they’ll inevitably make their way into your everyday vocabulary.
Being articulate and well-spoken is of great help in any profession, and knowing that you can speak to higher-ups with self-confidence can be an enormous boost to your self-esteem. It could even aid in your career, as those who are well-read, well-spoken, and knowledgeable on a variety of topics tend to get promotions more quickly (and more often) than those with smaller vocabularies and lack of awareness of literature, scientific breakthroughs, and global events.
Reading books is also vital for learning new languages, as non-native speakers gain exposure to words used in context, which will ameliorate their own speaking and writing fluency.
When you read a book, you have to remember an assortment of characters, their backgrounds, ambitions, history, and nuances, as well as the various arcs and sub-plots that weave their way through every story. That’s a fair bit to remember, but brains are marvellous things and can remember these things with relative ease.
Amazingly enough, every new memory you create forges new synapses (brain pathways)[3] and strengthens existing ones, which assists in short-term memory recall as well as stabilizing moods.[4] How cool is that?
If you want to learn more about how to increase brain power, boost memory and become 10x smarter,
Stress is a common hazard of our modern lives. A study by the University of Sussex demonstrated that six minutes of silent reading can reduce stress levels by 68 per cent. In fact, reading works better and faster than other methods such as listening to music, going for a walk or sitting down for a relaxing cuppa.
There are many reasons for the profound stress relieving effect of reading. First, reading allows the mind to focus and concentrate on the words, which pulls the reader away from anxious thoughts. Reading also has the effect of suspending reality. When we read, we escape into another world or another person and enter into an altered state of consciousness, which alleviates tension in the muscles and heart.
The relaxing effect produced by books is not determined by the type or genre of book you are reading, as long as you can lose yourself in the narrative.
There’s loads of research that suggests that people who read fiction are more empathetic. A 2014 study found that reading fiction improves the readers’ ability to flex the imagination and ‘puts the reader in the body of the protagonist.’

Yup, turns out that when you read about something, your brain reacts as if you’re actually living it. A 2011 study found that the reader’s brain creates intense, graphic mental simulations of the sights, sounds, movements and tastes they encounter in the narrative. This not only allows us to better imagine ourselves in other people’s shoes, but also allows us to experience a wider range of emotions and experiences than we would otherwise.

It’s also suggested that reading makes us more kick ass, overall, due to the fact that most fiction stories see a protagonist overcome obstacles to become a hero. As we’re living the story along with the character, this reportedly then gives us the courage to become our own heroes, regardless of whether that’s simply getting started on that project you’ve been putting off for like, evs.

Studies have found a decrease in empathy in the younger generation, suggested to be because less and less are reading, and more are spending all of their time on social media, playing games or on the Internet, all of which provide instant gratification but no room for empathy.

Have you ever solved a case in a mystery book before you read the conclusion or predicted a turn of events in a novel? Your analytical thinking was stimulated merely from reading. Reading helps you detect patterns, solve problems, and assimilate new information as if you were living in the characters’ shoes.
Reading can teach you historical politics, customs, cultures, economics, and intellect. Often these facts are set in a context of a story, making history easy to remember. When I was in middle school, history was not my favorite subject. The dates and events didn’t capture my attention when they came from a history book. Historical fiction, however, was a different matter. I loved reading about the past in story form, and I effortlessly learned historical facts and concepts while reading. I appreciate and understand the people and cultures of the past so much more than if I’d read only factual history books.
Reading books set in cultures different from our own provides knowledge of those cultures and the emotional and spiritual lives of the people who live there. I hope to travel the world someday, but until then I’m exploring through books. I’ve gained a deeper understanding of cultures through reading: stories of hammock beds, cannibals, burqas, and Uganda’s red dirt stand out stark in my brain. I’ve not yet been to these cultures, but I understand them better because of reading.
Reading about something you enjoy or losing yourself in a good novel is an excellent way to relax. It can ease tension in your muscles and heart while letting your brain wander to new ideas and live in someone else’s shoes. Reading is a mini vacation for your brain!

As you can see, reading is good for you - very, very good for you. It can improve your academic, social, physical, and spiritual life. With these persuasive facts running through your mind, it’s the perfect time to dive into your 2015 reading goals! Here are some ideas to get you started.

In our recent report on the rise of e-reading, we asked those who had read a book in the past 12 months to tell us what they like most about book reading. They gave a host of reasons that ranged from the highly practical to the sublime.

26% of those who had read a book in the past 12 months said that what they enjoyed most was learning, gaining knowledge, and discovering information.
15% cited the pleasures of escaping reality, becoming immersed in another world, and the enjoyment they got from using their imaginations.
12% said they liked the entertainment value of reading, the drama of good stories, the suspense of watching a good plot unfold.
12% said they enjoyed relaxing while reading and having quiet time.
6% liked the variety of topics they could access via reading and how they could find books that particularly interested them.
4% said they enjoy finding spiritual enrichment through reading and expanding their worldview.
3% said they like being mentally challenged by books.
2% cited the physical properties of books – their feel and smell – as a primary pleasure.
In their own words, respondents were eloquent and touching. One respondent noted: “I am an English teacher, so I read to save my sanity from grading essays.”
Those who talked about quiet entertainment tended toward phrases like “a stress-free escape,” “a nice way to relax,” “I read because it’s not work,” “diverting, entertaining and educational,” and “It draws me away from reality.” That was echoed by a respondent who said reading “takes you away, like a movie in your head.” One wryly said he liked reading “because it helps me with my temper and relaxes me.”

Those who talked about personal enrichment used phrases like “being able to experience so many times, places, and events.” Others expressed pleasure at living a “life of the mind.”

For many, reading was a proud lifestyle choice: “It’s better for me to imagine things in my head than watch them on TV.”

One compelling summary thought came from a respondent who declared: “I love being able to get outside myself.”

Reading is one of the things people love to do the most. However, there are some who are not fond or interested in doing such things, saying that they cannot concentrate when reading books or that they find it boring most of the time. In my case, I don’t get the reason why these people say that reading books is a boring thing to do. We do have different interests however, it is a bother to me that they find no interest in books. I do respect their perspectives and I am not in a position to judge them as to why they have no reason to like reading books but I am not here to persuade them to read as well. In fact, I am here to share the reasons why I personally love reading books.

To be honest, everything started when I was still a little kid, my neighbor from years ago, had their own garage sale. I actually find their place very interesting and they would tell me everything about it whenever I ask about their home, especially how Denver garage door repairs turned their simple garage door into something new, and so, it was also a way to attract many people to their garage sale. They used to sell many things — clothes, accessories, furniture, and even books. That was the time I became interested in books other than the ones I have for my studies. I usually see a lot of children’s stories or other books that are really inspiring for a kid like me.
According to research conducted at the University of Toronto, study participants who read short-story fiction experienced far less need for "cognitive closure" compared with counterparts who read nonfiction essays. Essentially, they tested as more open-minded, compared with the readers of essays. "Although nonfiction reading allows students to learn the subject matter, it may not always help them in thinking about it," the authors write. "A physician may have an encyclopedic knowledge of his or her subject, but this may not prevent the physician from seizing and freezing on a diagnosis, when additional symptoms point to a different malady."
That's according to Yale researchers who studied 3,635 people older than 50 and found that those who read books for 30 minutes daily lived an average of 23 months longer than nonreaders or magazine readers. Apparently, the practice of reading books creates cognitive engagement that improves lots of things, including vocabulary, thinking skills, and concentration. It also can affect empathy, social perception, and emotional intelligence, the sum of which helps people stay on the planet longer.
It gives you incomparable pleasure. While there is no doubt about the fact that reading is a priceless activity, it has been observed that the habit of reading has declined of late. One of the main causes for this decline is the growth of technology. However, what most people don’t know is there is so much to benefit from reading. Here are 30 reasons of reading books:
1
Gives knowledge
One of the biggest reasons why we read books is to gain knowledge. Books are a rich source of information. Reading books on varied subjects imparts information and increases the depth about the subject as well. Whenever you read a book, you learn a new information that otherwise would not have known.
2
Improves your brain
Studies have shown that reading has strong positive effects on the brain. By staying mentally stimulated, you can prevent dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. This is because, keeping your brain active prevents it from losing power. The brain is a muscle and like other muscles in the body, exercise keeps it strong and healthy. Similar to solving puzzles, reading books is a great way to exercise your brain and keep it healthy.
3
Reduces stress
Reading has a positive effect on the body as well. Reading a book can relieve stress better than taking a walk or listening to music. According to studies who read more tend to have lower stress levels.
4
Improves memory
Every time you read a book, you have to remember the setting of the book, the characters, their backgrounds, their history, their personalities, the sub-plots and so much more. As your brain learns to remember all this, your memory becomes better. What’s more, with every new memory you create, you create new pathways and this strengthens the existing ones.
5
Improves imagination
The more you read, the more imaginative you become. Whenever you read a fiction book, it takes you another world. In the new world, your imagination works at its best as you try to see things in your own mind.
6
Develops critical thinking skills
One of the primary benefits of reading books is its ability to develop critical thinking skills. For example, reading a mystery novel sharpens your mind. Critical thinking skills are crucial when it comes to making important day to day decisions. Reading requires an individual to think and process information in a way that watching television can’t. The more you read, the deeper your understanding becomes about what you’re reading and its application.
7
Builds vocabulary
Reading improves your vocabulary and command on the language. As you read, you come across new words, idioms, new words, phrases and writing styles.
8
Improves writing skills
Reading a well-written book affects your ability to become a better writer. Just like artists influence others, so do writers. Many successful authors gained their expertise by reading the works of others. So, if you want to become a better writer, start by learning from previous masters.
9
Improves communication skills
Improving your vocabulary and writing skills goes hand in hand with developing your communication skills. The more you read and write, the better you communicate. Increasing your ability to communicate, improves your relationships and even makes you a better employee or student.
10
Improves focus and concentration
In our busy lifestyles, our attention is drawn in different directions each day as we try to multi-task through each day. For example, you may find yourself dividing your time between working on a task, chatting with people via Skype, checking email, keeping an eye on Facebook and interacting with your colleagues. All this multi-tasking can lead to high stress level and low productivity. When you read a book, all your attention is focused on what you’re reading. Your eyes and thoughts are immersed in the details of the story. This improves your concentration and focus. Read a book at least 20 minutes a day, and you will be amazed at how much more focused you will be.
11
A fruitful hobby
Reading books keep us occupied. It also leads to a fruitful use of time. It not only helps us get rid of worries, but also diverts our mind from monotony. Books are excellent sources of recreation. Someone who loves to read can never get bored, as this is a perfect way to rid of boredom. As books take you to another different world, you relax and rejuvenate.
12
Cheap entertainment
Compared to other forms of entertainment, books are quite cheap. You will never get a movie ticket for $8-$10. But, with this money, you can buy yourself a book and be entertained for many hours.
13
Motivation
Life is full of challenges. As we move through different phases in different, a little motivation can be of great help. Reading inspirational books about life experiences can change our lives. Reading a good book, such an autobiography keeps you encouraged and you also learn tips to help you achieve your personal goals. Basically, you get inspired to become a better husband, wife, daughter, son, mother, father or even employee.
14
Improves health
There are thousands, if not millions, of great self-help books. Many of these books can actually help improve your health. Reading such books reduces levels of depression. People with severe depression can benefit from reading self-help books. Apart from this, such books offer important tips on exercising, dieting and other healthy lifestyle tips. All this leads to improved mental and physical health.
15
Makes you more empathetic
According to studies, losing yourself in books, especially fiction, might increase your empathy. In a study conducted in the Netherlands, researchers showed that people who were “emotionally transported” by a work of fiction experienced a boost in empathy. By reading a book, you become part of the story and feel the pain and other emotions of the characters. This in turn allows your mind to become more aware of how different things affect other people. Eventually, this improves your ability to emphasize with other people. So, go ahead and read that story, a world with more empathetic people would definitely be a better place!
16
Improves Skills
Reading is a fundamental skill builder. For every good course on earth, there is a matching book to go with it. Books provide important information on various subjects and topics. The best thing about reading is that you can go deeper that what learn in a classroom discussion. Whether it’s cooking, dancing, or even cleaning, you can always improve your skills by reading books.
17
Build self-esteem
By reading many books, you communicate better and become more informed on various areas of life. All this translates into a higher self-esteem. Since you have confidence in yourself and your ability to deliver, you become more productive and overall a much better person.
18
Portable entertainment
Books are portable and light in weight. They are not like bulky computers and games that take too much space. With a book, you can pack it in your handbag and easily carry it everywhere. You can read anywhere, in a plane as you travel, in your bed before you sleep, under a shade as you relax, or even during your holiday.
19
Helps you sleep better
Poor sleep leads to low productivity. This is why so many experts recommend that you establish regular de-stressing routine before you sleep to help calm your mind and therefore sleep better. Reading a book is one of the best ways to calm yourself before you go to bed. Instead of watching television or spending too much time on your smartphone while in bed, take some time to read. The bright lights from the electronic devices will only affect your sleep. On the other hand, a book will help you sleep better.
20
Learn about another world
The world of fiction allows you to travel to another world, where everything is different. By reading books, you get a glimpse of other cultures and places. Books expand your horizons, letting you see other countries, other people and so many other things you have never seen or imagined. It’s the perfect way to visit a strange country in your mind.
21
Socialization
We can always share whatever we have read with our family, friends and colleagues. All this increases our ability to socialize. Humans are social beings and in the world of smartphones, we are losing our ability to socialize. However, reading had led to the formation of book clubs and other forums where we get a chance to share and interact with others.
22
Improves creativity
The biggest difference between reading and watching television is that reading gives you the scope to unleash your creativity. The more you read, the more you learn new things. New thoughts always stretch our minds to rediscover life in new and better ways. We start to see the world in a different way and this way we find new creative solutions.
23
Learn at your own pace
Another benefit of reading a book is that you learn at your own pace. Since you have the book all the time, you can always go back to a section you feel you don’t understand. You can re-read a chapter as many times as you wish, without worry that you will miss out a section. If it’s a self-help book, you can tackle one issue at a time. Once you handle one problem, then you can move to the next issue whenever you feel you’re ready. Everything is done at your own pace and most importantly, your mind is free to interpret things the way you feel.
24
Lots of choices to choose from
There are so many great books to read that you will never finish them all in a lifetime. Books have been written for centuries, right now, someone is writing a book, and in the future, books will still be written. Whether you’re looking for something to inspire you, something to make you laugh, romance or even gaining a new skill, there are countless books for that. All you need is to take some time and pick which one to read. There will never be a shortage of great books.
25
Improves morals
Books help us better discern good ideas from bad ideas. Reading a book allows us to learn about different approaches to life and the problems we face. By doing this, you get an opportunity to discern what has worked in the past and what has not worked. Basically, you learn to make better decisions in life.
26
Learn about your history
History plays an important role is who we are today. By reading books, we get a better understanding of the past and how it continues to affect us. With books, you get a chance to learn about your country, family and the world in general. It’s a great way to revisit your past and appreciate the present.
27
Save money
Apart from being inexpensive, you will also save a lot of money by reading books. Books don’t require electricity, neither do they need any form of maintenance. When you read a book on a certain skill, such as cooking, woodwork, or simple DIY tasks, you save yourself the money you would have used to hire a contractor. You not only learn new skills, but also save yourself a lot of expenses.
28
No side effects of the digital world
Spending too much time watching television or playing video games can affect your eye health in the long run. On the other hand, books are safe and easy. No one has ever gone blind from reading too many books. There are no known side effects or dangers of reading great books. All there is are benefits.
29
Makes you smarter
With so much to learn from books, people who read regularly tend to be smarter than those who don’t. They tend to have an open mind and are more aware of their surroundings.
30
Books are better than movies
So many movies have been adapted from books. But, if you read a book and then watch its movie, you will agree that the book is 100 times better than the movie. There is always that unique part, like what a character is thinking, that a movie can never capture.

